in general this should have been the
happiest day of my life and it was for
me one of the most tragic one of the
most heartbreaking one of the most
oldest wrong it was absolutely terrible
and that has a lot to do with the human
condition and you know is a lot to do
with the bureaucratic and political
context in France see how we did all
that research we had all the best laid
plans and from my perspective it ended
up being a soul destroy disaster anyway
about us yen this is very much take two
on my attempting to do a kind of birth
story video with my girlfriend take one
she was working from a list of questions
and the questions were intelligent
interesting I'm now let read the whole
list of questions so you did actually
ask some intelligent questions of that
but for me this is really a lesson in
why I do unscripted videos why it's
really important to do on spirit videos
because it's funny because I think the
format of that didn't work because you
were working from a program script
you're not really responding to what I'm
telling you so I'm gonna try to do a
more spontaneous video about how my
daughter is born what I learned from the
birth the background of this just is we
watch together this other vegan
youtubers channel vegan mom that vegan
mom's name is obvious is not her names
name of jail at that vegan mom and that
being a mom and I go way back like car
seats she's known we've known each other
no one about each other by YouTube for a
couple of years and she just gave birth
to twins in the past she gave birth to
her son blah blah blah she tells her own
story on her channel you can go see that
there if you'll wanna um you know so my
story you know with the birth of my
daughter is from my perspective really
tragic and really terrible was really
horrible
and I've gotta say that in general you
know it said to set the tone for this
video however you know there are some
things other people could learn from of
them I'd be useful and it's really the
story of two people you know Mia Mac's
wife who did a lot of planning and a lot
of preparation and despite all that
planning and preparation despite all the
thought care that went into it kind of
it turned out horribly for me anyway
right so look so ex tempore I mean for
you look you you've got questions
covering a whole listed what for you is
the number one question not in
chronological sequence but in terms of
depth or importance if what is you know
more question about you know where my
daughter comes from that way yeah I
think the number one question was the
first one that I listed basically like
why did you choose France and also you
know then you moved to Taiwan
you know you chose that place they were
going to start raising
so what made you decide on France and
then Taiwan like you know these
processions that went into so those are
two two very different stories the
question of where we would give birth
was a huge pile of research we worked
against an amazingly long list of
options that we we researched primarily
through Google you know primary with
internet I mean and no it's actually
significant also we did in some cases
rely on human opinions we were lied on
talking to and asking people's opinions
who seemed like they know what they're
talking about and that can be way more
misleading than Google you know
sometimes Google can give you much
better information then you know a
person who for example you still live in
Perpignan but like you know we got in
touch with a guy and asked him guy but
you know oh well what is it like living
in Perpignan that's a city in France we
ended up you know raising my daughter
for the first so many months of her life
um so yeah primarily Google based
research but then also reaching up to
and asking people we knew who knew about
these things and some of that advice was
good and some of it was bad but we
considered having my daughter born in
Taiwan Thailand you know various places
in Asia
my wife's work or my work had connected
us to we considered United States and
Canada but obviously Canada even just
within Canada there'd be many options
and then within Europe and we looked at
actually a long list of obscure and
remote places islands that are
controlled as French territory because
my ex-wife is a French citizen and some
of the islands that are controlled as as
US territory and so on and places like
Mexico we weren't really interested in
but we were finding information they
knew that they had good hospitals that
could handle this so that was really a
process that was a brainstorming process
really starting from a blank sheet of
paper and a lot of the research was
about how did the hospital system work
in the given place how did the insurance
system work because because wait just
keep in mind if you're doing this this
is really where one emphasized the
research for the people I'm I left a
comment below that meat vegan mom's
video below her video I said look the
main factor you can control is where you
give birth you know like so if you
choose to give birth in Mexico or choose
give birth in France
totally different scenario
institutionally but in all these places
you had to research one what's gonna
happen if it's a normal healthy birth
with no problems no complications to
what's gonna happen if there are
problems too because then terms of
health insurance money cost even just
where you're gonna stay right like where
are you gonna be living if things go
wrong and you know but yet cost is
certainly a factor and then three how
are we gonna live for the immediate
period of weeks and months after the the
child is born because we were doing this
as there's just two people alone in the
world no aunts and uncles involved no
parents involved her parents not
involved my parents not involved and so
on so that was the scenario and again I
encourage others to do what we did in
that sense I encourage others to look at
the whole world because especially if
you're American it's probably gonna cost
you the same amount everywhere it's
gonna save you money I mean it's
probably cheaper for you to give birth
outside of the United States and in
states if you're an American citizen I'm
a Canadian citizen max wife has dual
citizenship both American and French and
we did all this research and in the end
what that brought us to was specifically
Perpignan France I figured you had done
plenty of research because you research
everything but you know it's unfortunate
that you went through all that research
and nevertheless had such negative
experience we fended up in a situation I
was unhappy with right but you us to
course the second question is why we
have been why did we end up in Taiwan
after that yeah and that's a totally
different story because we broke our
backs well I did all the heavy lifting I
mean my wife was pregnant but I mean I
got and assembled all the furniture we
moved in we created this home to raise
our daughter and in Perpignan France and
Perpignan is in French Catalonia right
on the border with Spanish Catalonia
Catalonia is now in the process of
becoming an independent country it seems
fascinating political situation but we
put in all this work to get set up there
and just because the immigration office
in that city in France was garbage
should I say it was corrupt should I say
it was incompetent should I use other
more colorful words because of a couple
bad people in one go
bureaucratic office it was impossible
for us to stay there so that was a paper
work created situation there were bad
people in positions of authority in one
office in the government in France and
we did formally complain anymore highly
educated highly literate people we saw
to what extent we could fight the system
then it was very clear that because
these few people in this one
bureaucratic office in France were
terrible people and running a terrible
office so well either we have to exit
France completely and then re-enter
France and restart the immigration
process with new paperwork like pretend
we never arrived in France at all
pretended we didn't just give birth to a
baby in France start with new paperwork
in a different city in a different
province in France you could do that if
that was allowed that wouldn't be
breaking the law that's that's the law
you can restart with a new sheet of
paper or we leave France entirely give
up on France as the plan now if you do
that again if you've been in one city in
France where the immigration process was
incompetent corrupts bad etc why would
you think it would be better elsewhere
you know again you can do some Google
research but we had no reason that we
could go through the same tragic
scenario all over again and still end up
homeless having to flee with our baby in
our possessions remember when you have
to move everything you own by airplane
and everything you only includes a
newborn infant you own almost nothing
because you have the baby of the diapers
of the baby of all the things you need
for the baby I mean you know I didn't I
didn't have a own a single book you know
what I mean I lost everything I had my
own you know you don't even can't even
bring many adult clothes you're very
limited luggage allowance is devoted
entirely to the baby and the things the
baby needs first and foremost right so
you know we'd already gone through that
in effect going from Canada to Perpignan
really hard to create a home and nothing
in Perpignan you know rents rent an
empty apartment furnish it and in France
it is very hard to get the electricity
and light set up and phone it was a real
you that was a big struggle in France
some countries in others know it is what
it is and then we were losing all that
we're leaving like refugees and the
question is well if we're going to leave
like refugees do you want to come back
to France do this all over again and
also you have to deal with health
insurance paper working on this again
for the baby of course or do you want to
give up on France entirely and we made
the fateful decision at that point for
totally different reasons to give up on
France and go to Taiwan so yeah and I
could say more about that but this is
this is about the birth right and not
about the relocation after the birth but
these two are useful warnings or useful
advice or people think about you may not
you may not be able to anticipate that
you may not be able to think through
those kinds of consequences yeah and I'm
sure your decision had to do with you
know I know that you probably factored
in a lot of different reasons for
deciding on France ultimately but I
think probably the health insurance is a
big deal for why he chose I think
honestly the number one concern was my
ex-wife's mental stability and happiness
it was a very unhappy time of her life
she'd just quit her job in Canada so no
you know we got health insurance in
Canada we can afford we can afford
health care in Mexico you wouldn't
Thailand another great option
financially very affordable is it as a
foreigner in Thailand you could share
okay that go really no big deal no I
mean ultimately you got to think about
me for the mother this would be true in
any relationship it was maybe especially
sure my relationship what she's gonna go
through in the first three months you
know be okay the the couple last couple
months of pregnancy giving birth in the
first few months the baby's life there
are there a lot of factors there and
indeed you know at that time my ex-wife
was quite estranged from her family she
did not want to be too close to her
family so that was another question was
okay do you you don't want to be too
close but do you want to be too far and
that was that was also a choice so we
were close enough that it was possible
for my ex-wife to you know have some
family members over and not others kind
of thing she could control how much the
baby you know was in contact with the
other family members and you know it was
it was easier to manage her estranged
relations but yeah we were very much
alone we were
man wife baby no aunts no uncle's no
grandparents nobody else has any kind of
support it's tough it's tough but you
know she quit her job and she destroyed
my whole educational career situation so
I had nothing you know so we weren't a
position or so well we only had two
people but we had two people who were
able to devote 24 hours a day seven days
a week to the baby and that's totally
different
for having two parents or even just one
of them as a job let alone two of them
as a job so we were both 24/7
stay-at-home parents for the first 10
months of my daughter's life and that
works that you can do so literally you
know if my if my wife was with the baby
I could go and do food shopping if I was
playing with the baby my wife could cook
food or vice versa
I did do a lot of cooking for that
reason if she's breastfeeding the baby I
can cook and whatever you know but know
at any given time one of the two of you
has to have both your hands full with a
baby and that's you know that becomes
the rhythm of your days I was beautiful
are the beautiful rhythm to live by you
know obviously that element is a happy
memory for me the first 10 months I
spent with my daughter and I was with my
daughter when she took her first steps
and made her first noises shouldn't say
any real words but she was you know to
me and all that stuff ya know it's its
magic you know and changing diapers and
all that kind of stuff but you know to
give an example when my ex-wife went out
to see a therapist you know of her so
she's away for a couple of hours either
that was very very hard just to have
those even just a couple of hours to
really be one parent rather than to
cooperate it's very very hard so and you
know a babies that age they they do
always want to be around the breast they
want to access to breast feeding one
time even when they're not breastfeeding
they'll start to panic
that's not around so it's pumping plenty
of quality time with my daughter you
know alone without my wife but I know
because my wife was sleeping you know
she just nap or fall asleep at different
times but you know just every so often
that's straight up evolutionary biology
the baby wants to check is the breasts
nearby because in terms of how they've
evolved that's there
only source of nutrition if the baby is
separated from breastfeeding it'll it'll
die so it's a very strong survival and
say they want to check that that's
around you know visually or by smell or
whatever it is so yeah
don't become very unhappy very soon if
they don't have access to that important
one to me is like how you decided on the
plan for giving birth like what research
went into it what how did you make your
decisions because well this is a good
question but like it's all irrelevant if
your doctor is an [ __ ]
like you know you can sit in your
apartment and drop my plant my birth
plan yeah you know like Wow how was your
doctor gonna see it and if you maybe you
have a dog who's like oh that's a good
birth plan where they really care and
really listen and you know again we did
take one of this video so this is stuff
we never talked about before but she
already heard this like we went to one
hospital with one doctor and the guy was
such an [ __ ] that he banned us from
the hospital
he didn't wash his hands amid all these
concerns but he seemed drugged up he
seemed like he was at least on
antidepressants at night if not other
drugs he was just really looping out if
he was a young guy he was not an elderly
doctor it was a young guy and it was
like so dude are you on like a double
dose of Prozac and like maybe a chaser
of like whiskey and cocaine but he was
Lee he was seemed really out of it he
wasn't washing his hands we should move
but he banned us like after we met that
doctor we met and as it was like do you
think we can put up with this doctor and
like you know we were starting to think
of it then we didn't have to think about
it cuz he banned us from that hospital
as a private oh okay yeah yeah okay so
that hospitals that you know like we had
to deal with such extremists such
extreme such know such extreme hostility
and such extreme and competence from
doctors and midwives and what have you
know so okay good question I was just in
mid-sentence but like you know like I
think that was really that was the Oz
but we did end up giving birth in so at
the very end of the story we got a lot
of hostility there from the doctors and
nurses because of because
although probably some of the
hostilities started because we showed up
there with a midwife there that part of
France they really think well if you use
a midwife your anti-science your auntie
modern medicine and then the veganism
they also viewed that way like I said if
we were members of a religious cult and
were against modern medicine and the
irony was we were way more Pro science
Pro modern medicine than any of the
nurses and any of the doctors a lot of
them were fruit loops I mean anyone can
become a you know a neonatal nurse or
everyone can become a labor and delivery
nurse I mean you know like the some of
these people are really stupid and some
of them will sit down and tell you
they're insane you know just a
mainstream pseudoscience crap believing
in believing in homeopathy and crap like
that you know I mean you know so yeah I
mean you get to meet the nurses and
those long hours and each one has their
own personality some are more free
there's the friendly airhead and there's
the not too friendly one it's a bit
smarter and so on you got to know which
of those personalities but yeah I mean
if you ask about do you have a birth
plan
well sure we had all kinds of druthers
we all kinds of preferences but then can
you convince any doctors or nurses to it
to work with you one of the ones that
was a breaking point for the surgeon so
the you know because there are doctors
at different levels but the the most
elite doctors the one who in that ward
was the the surgeons she was that she
was the head surgeon on duty at that
time right she was the highest ranking
doctor and there was some lower doctrine
she just felt her ego tremendously
challenges we asked a totally legit
question about the placenta and the
cutting the umbilical cord that that not
be rushed that you give the umbilical
cord enough time to finish doing its
thing before you you cut the umbilical
cord now it turns that was probably
irrelevant in my daughter's case because
my daughter was a hundred and ten
percent full-term she got the full full
term as opposed to being premature or
even just a hundred percent she she was
you know when she came out of the womb
she didn't look like a newborn baby she
really didn't she looked like a four
month old baby already
yeah she everything was perfect the
eyelashes and the amber it was all kind
of fully formed it was it looked like a
fake baby it's like when you watch a
movie or a soap opera or something and
they're like oh here's your newly
developed baby
and it looks fake it's like this it was
that fake or morally they handed me this
baby okay there's nothing there was so
that was probably relevant but in any
case but we just raised this issue said
well you know we're aware and this is
totally on a modern medical science
basis there's this issue with you know
cutting the umbilical cord immediately
as opposed to just giving it time to
finish transferring fluids before you
before you cut it and the doctor was so
freaked out by that her it was a female
doctor her sense of ego was really
really challenged you know so I mean the
the other dark the doctor banned us from
the other hospital I didn't even ask
what he just said I seemed to self
coughing I was asking him really simple
scientific questions about the
procedures because we've done all this
reading you did all this reading and
research so they go so you do it do you
do it this method or this method you
like a lot of things there are like two
or three different ways to do them oh so
you do you do birth this way or this way
you know like what kind of bed what kind
of pick you know there's definitely that
you want to know you know there were
different approaches to do you give
birth on a 45 degree angle or what you
know what I mean and he was his ego was
just too challenged by me asking these
things in a completely down-to-earth way
so this is the French you know medical
establishment ego thing and then that
female doctor also just that one
question
she was totally freaked out and you
could tell also these days you could
tell she was freaked out and then she
went away and googled it and then she
came back after having done sir you know
you could tell how things check cuz
after you have to really like if she
realized there actually was a scientific
reason trust me asking us but she was
that was terrible she treated us like
garbage and most of the nurses did too
there were a couple of nurses that were
good to us and I do remember them also
as unique personality was unbelievable
the level of hostility and I think I
think I've already told this anything on
on YouTube but at one point you know the
the doctor or said to us well if they
said to us all these denigrating things
they assumed we were from a third-world
country
for no reason they say things like oh
well how do they do things in your
country it was like I'm from Toronto
Canada like where do you think we're
from my wife is like she's from nice
like you know what I mean like and you
know one of the other things was like
you know what
doctor just replied think it was on this
issue it was like well you know um you
know I'm I'm a medical doctor and my
diploma is from Paris 12 or whatever you
know she named the University you know
where her diplomas from she's like what
kind of education do you get this
directive and you know this is my wife
is almost in labor at this point this is
someone in pain this is someone going
into labor and my wife said back to her
I have a PhD from Cambridge University
but it's just like the level of
contentment was really said in an
insulting contemptuous way and people
are being insulting and contemptuous
towards my life and in one case violent
in one case I had to prevent a nurse
from assaulting my wife and this is
someone who's in pain and in exhausted
obviously the sleep deprivation it's you
know epic you know you don't sleep for
48 hours and you're given prison regular
you know I mean so you know that was it
was really awful it was like I say I
mean in general this should have been
the happiest day of my life and it was
for me one of the most tragic one of the
most heartbreaking one of the most soul
destroying it was absolutely terrible
and that has a lot to do with the human
condition and you know always a lot to
do with the bureaucratic and political
context in France so yeah we did all
that research we had all the best laid
plans and from my perspective it ended
up being a soul destroy disaster anyway
and sure if I if I could change anything
I'd make I'd make different decisions
about everything
yeah cuz that's 20 minute video we could
talk more why don't we wrap it up there
okay good so that was my birth story the
video Banas yen